In a modern world where technology is (practical and) creative and limited only by your imagination having both a creative yet logical mind is vital, i am applying to study computing to pursue a career that utilises the creativity of computer science and i am eager to build upon my current skills to improve to a more advanced level.


There are four reasons why i'm applying to study computing. First is the sheer joy (satisfaction) of making things, (satisfaction of having completing things and being successful) programming is an art that produces visible results and appeals greatly to my artistic side. Second is the satisfaction of making things useful to people (extend further). (Rearrange, Start with verb.. Making, doing etc) Fulfilling work to me is being able to help make others lives easier through my work. Third is that computing appeals to my logical side, solving complex issues by creating many interlocking, puzzle-like moving parts (shorten ?mechanisms? make sure reader understands subject) is immensely fascinating. Fourth would be the joy of learning. Everyday comes with a different challenge and with every challenge i learn something new. (reword and new ending)


After studying computer science (my interest in comp Sci begin when ..)at AS level i made the decision to take an (pursue?) apprenticeship as a web developer to which would allow me to experience computer science in the real world.(expand) I have a years experience working for a(describe, online travel...) company called secret escapes, developing features (for their website) and providing technical and word support. I use (competent in a range of different programming languages, including java…)  Groovy,Java and Javascript programming languages on a day to day basis. One of the most important takeaways (skills gained- valuable) from my apprenticeship would be that (critical thinking?)i learned to think logically, (your point is that you’re already logical) and i learned to problem solve. (Motivation and … will be skills i can apply at university where…)i believe these skills will be my key to achieving success within university. As part of my apprenticeship 


Throughout my apprenticeship i have accomplished a variety of achievements professionally as well as personally. Completing my apprenticeship involves attending regular training sessions each ending with exams, from these i have attained several certifications which demonstrate my ability in core concepts of computer science and software development. Day to day my abilities are stimulated; I am the first point of contact for the business, writing scripts to solve problems. I also help develop new features,bugfix and improve legacy code. Independently I work on several solo projects including an automated reporting tool, a site/server status dashboard and automating services within internal tools such as zendesk and slack. 


Constantly looking to expand my knowledge, i make sure to use all available resources. (personally looking to improve) Independently I have completed several online courses including 5 different Coursera courses which...Alongside these, are courses from Treehouse; helping me become confident in programming on the jvm, and FreeCodeCamp, giving me experience with front end development. From using Code School, I have increased my knowledge about git, sql (AND ONE MORE) to name only a few. Overall, outside of the workplace, i go above and beyond the basics; I constantly look to improve and expand my personal knowledge.


I have collated a variety of my work at this webaddress for ease of using: http://reubensua.com


This portfolio contains a range of skills that I am competent in and also displays my certificates and achievements. It showcases a variety of different projects, from games to api’s and work relating to my apprenticeship. The Site itself uses an api i created to provide the information shown.


From the experience that I have in this field of work put together with the qualification of earning a degree I know that there will be more opportunities for me in the future.


Learning at university will give me a focused environment in which i can continue to develop
