Q1 Explain Data Modelling.

Data modelling is used to define and analyze data requirements for the business logic in an application. Where you identify entity types and assign data attributes to entitys.

Q2 Describe entities and attributes with examples.

An entity is a unit of data(e.g an object) that can be collected and has stated relationships with other entities.
An attribute is a property of an entity which describe the entity. The entity can have multiple attributes.
Example. We can collect data about a man so the man is an entity, the man has name,weight,height and age, those are his attributes which store the values which describe the entity (the man).

Q3 What are the different types of relationships
There are 4 types of relationships.
- One to One: One entity is associated with another entity. For Ex: Each employee is associated with one department
- One to Many: One entity is associated with many other entities. For Ex: A company is associated with all working employees in one branch/office/country.
- Many to One: Many entities are associated with only one entity. For Ex: Many employees are associated with one project.
- Many to Many: Many entities are associated with many other entities. For Ex: In a company many employees are associated with multiple projects(completed/existing), and at the same time, projects are associated with multiple employees.

Q4 Describe all the three forms of Normalisation?

Database Normalisation is a technique of organizing the data in the database. Normalization is a systematic approach of decomposing tables to eliminate data redundancy and undesirable anamolies. For a database to be considered normalised it needs to have meet the criteria before it. i.e 3NF needs to have the requirements of 2NF and 1NF met.

First normal form (1NF). 
-Each column corresponds to an attribute of the object represented by the entire table.
-Each row represents a unique instance of that attribute and are unique from other rows.
-All entries in any column must be of the same kind

Second normal form (2NF).
-Remove data that applys to multiple rows of a table and place them in separate tables.
-Create relationships between these new tables and their predecessors through the use of foreign keys.

Third Normal Form (3NF)
-All attributes must be directly dependant on the primary key

Q5 When should you consider denormalization?

Denomalization is used when encountering performance issues.For example an database that is not normalized will be easier to query since the all the data is stored in a single row in a single table whilst if you are querying a normailised database you would need to read data from a row in table 1, related data from all the rows from table 2 for that item and data from the corresponding rows in the table 3 for each linked item. Which would be much slower than a denormalized database.

Q6 In what situation would you use an artificial primary key?

You would use a surrogate (or artificial) when you cannot create a natural primary key from business data as the key name could change.

Q7 Explain Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD).

An entity relationship model,is a graphical representation of entities and their relationships to each other.

Q8 What is a surrogate key? Explain with an example.

A surrogate key is a artificial primary key created in place of a natural primary key and is indepenant from change.
For example, If you are told to create a database of airports you could not use AIRPORT_NAME as a primary key as it is subject to change, therefore you would create a new column and set it as your "Surrogate" primary key and name it as AIRPORT_ID.

Q9 Explain triggers with an example.

A trigger is a set of SQL statements which completes an action when a specfic event occurs(INSERT,DELETE,UPDATE etc).A trigger consists of an event against a associated table and an action.

For example:

CREATE TABLE Source (ID int IDENTITY, Description varchar(10))
go
CREATE TRIGGER tr_Source_INSERT
ON Source
FOR INSERT
AS
PRINT GETDATE()
go
INSERT Source (Description) VALUES ('Test 1')

-- Results --

Sept 12 2016 9:56AM
